README.md, before:

# Enigma3

'Enigma3' is a JavaFX application that simulates the Enigma machine.

**USE AT OWN RISK.**

## Overview
'Enigma3' is set up as a Maven project that uses JavaFX, MaterialFX, FXML and 
CSS to render the GUI. 
Maven can be run from the command line as shown below.
Maven resolves dependencies and builds the application independently of an IDE.

This application simulates the [Enigma Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma_machine). 

**Note: there are no restrictions placed on the Rotor selection, as such some 
Rotor combinations can be made that may not be available on the real machine.**

**Note: the turnover points for the Commercial, Rocket and SwissK Rotors are 
guesses and may be incorrect.**

## Dependencies
'Enigma3' is dependent on the following:

  * Java 15.0.1
  * Apache Maven 3.6.3

The source code is structured as a standard Maven project which requires Maven 
and a JDK to be installed. A quick web search will help, alternatively
[Oracle](https://www.java.com/en/download/) and 
[Apache](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) should guide you through the
install.

Also [OpenJFX](https://openjfx.io/openjfx-docs/) can help set up your 
favourite IDE to be JavaFX compatible, however, Maven does not require this.

## Cloning
The following commands clone the code:

	git clone https://github.com/PhilLockett/Enigma3.git
	cd Enigma3/

## Running
Once cloned the following command executes the code:

	mvn clean javafx:run

## User Guide
Selected settings and states will be persisted from one session to the next.
This means that all settings are saved to "Settings.dat" when the application 
is shutdown. The next time Enigma3 is executed, these settings are loaded ready 
to continue from where it left off.

### Reflector Set-Up
The choice box allows standard pre-configured reflectors to be selected. 

Alternatively, the toggle allows for a reconfigurable reflector to be used.
Twelve loop-back wired pairs must be defined using the pair-select pop-up 
window after clicking the 'Edit' buttton. 
The thirteenth pair is assumed from the two remaining unused letters.

### Rotor Set-Up
By default, Enigma3 functions as a 3 Rotor machine, allowing the Left, Middle 
and Right Rotors to be defined. The 'Fourth Rotor' toggle, when selected, 
brings in the Fourth Rotor.

Some machines use letters on the Rotors, whereas some use numbers. 
The 'Use Numbers' toggle switches between these characters on the 'Ring 
Settings' and Rotor 'Offsets' spinners for convenience.

#### Rotor Selection
These choice boxes allow different Rotors to be selected for each of the 
positions. No restrictions are placed on the selection so combinations 
can be selected that may not be available on the real machine.

#### Ring Settings
These spinners allow the ring settings for each rotor to be set.

#### Rotor Offsets
These spinners set up the initial rotor offsets. 

The Rotors advance in a predefined orderly manner with each key press before 
translation.

### Plugboard Connections
Zero or more swap-over pairs can be configured (typically 10 are set). 
The pairs are be defined using the pair-select pop-up window after clicking 
the 'Edit' buttton. 

### Translation
This area shows the key presses and translated values.

#### Encipher / Decipher
The 'Encipher' toggle is only available when all settings are valid. 

Un-select the toggle to make configuration changes.

Select the toggle to translate key presses using the current configuration 
settings.
The majority of the settings become disabled while translating.

#### Show Translation
Select the 'Show Translation' toggle to see all the individual translation 
steps displayed on the command line.

#### Default Settings
The 'Default Settings' button returns all settings to the original values 
including clearing all the text boxes.

## Points of interest
This code has the following points of interest:

  * Enigma3 simulates the behaviour of the [Enigma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma_machine) machine.
  * Enigma3 is an updated version of [Enigma2](https://github.com/PhilLockett/Enigma2).
  * Enigma3 is a Maven project that uses JavaFX, MaterialFX, FXML and CSS.
  * Uses a custom controller, "RotorControl", to represent rotor settings.
  * Uses a custom controller, "PairSelect", to represent reflector and plugboard settings.
  * Uses subtle linear and radial colour gradients on controls.
  * Uses SVG paths to create circular text fields.
  * Uses custom top-bars on all windows.
  * Rotor combinations can be selected that may not be available on the real machine.
  * Data is persisted from one session to the next.

Commit message:

Removed 'Encipher' switch since the keyboard is no longer needed for configuraton.

README.md, after:

# Enigma3

'Enigma3' is a JavaFX application that simulates the Enigma machine.

**USE AT OWN RISK.**

## Overview
'Enigma3' is set up as a Maven project that uses JavaFX, MaterialFX, FXML and 
CSS to render the GUI. 
Maven can be run from the command line as shown below.
Maven resolves dependencies and builds the application independently of an IDE.

This application simulates the [Enigma Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma_machine). 

**Note:** _there are no restrictions placed on the Rotor selection, as such some 
Rotor combinations can be made that may not be available on the real machine._

**Note:** _the turnover points for the Commercial, Rocket and SwissK Rotors are 
guesses and may be incorrect._

## Dependencies
'Enigma3' is dependent on the following:

  * Java 15.0.1
  * Apache Maven 3.6.3

The source code is structured as a standard Maven project which requires Maven 
and a JDK to be installed. A quick web search will help, alternatively
[Oracle](https://www.java.com/en/download/) and 
[Apache](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) should guide you through the
install.

Also [OpenJFX](https://openjfx.io/openjfx-docs/) can help set up your 
favourite IDE to be JavaFX compatible, however, Maven does not require this.

## Cloning
The following commands clone the code:

	git clone https://github.com/PhilLockett/Enigma3.git
	cd Enigma3/

## Running
Once cloned the following command executes the code:

	mvn clean javafx:run

## User Guide
Selected settings and states will be persisted from one session to the next.
This means that all settings are saved to "Settings.dat" when the application 
is shutdown.
The next time Enigma3 is executed, these settings are loaded ready to continue 
from where it left off.

### Reflector Set-Up
The choice box allows standard pre-configured reflectors to be selected. 

Alternatively, the toggle allows for a reconfigurable reflector to be used.
Twelve loop-back wired pairs must be defined using the pair-select pop-up 
window after clicking the 'Edit' buttton. 
The thirteenth pair is assumed from the two remaining unused letters.

### Rotor Set-Up
By default, Enigma3 functions as a 3 Rotor machine, allowing the Left, Middle 
and Right Rotors to be defined.
The 'Use Fourth Rotor' toggle, when selected, brings in the Fourth Rotor.

Some machines use letters on the Rotors, whereas some use numbers. 
The 'Use Numbers' toggle switches between these characters on the 'Ring 
Settings' and Rotor 'Offsets' spinners for convenience.

#### Rotor Selection
The 'Rotor' choice box allows different Rotors to be selected for each of the 
rotor positions.
No restrictions are placed on the selection so combinations can be selected 
that may not be available on the real machine.

#### Ring Settings
The 'Ring Setting' spinners set the ring setting for each rotor.

#### Rotor Offsets
These rotor 'Offset' spinners set up the initial rotor positions. 

The Rotors advance in a predefined orderly manner with each key press before 
translation.

### Plugboard Connections
Zero or more swap-over pairs can be configured (typically ten are set). 
The pairs are defined using the pair-select pop-up window after clicking the 
'Edit' buttton. 

### Translation
This area shows the key presses and the translated values using the current 
configuration settings.

#### Show Translation
Select the 'Show Translation' toggle to see all the individual translation 
steps displayed on the command line.

#### Default Settings
The 'Default Settings' button returns all settings to the original values 
including clearing all the text boxes.

## Points of interest
This code has the following points of interest:

  * Enigma3 simulates the behaviour of the [Enigma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma_machine) machine.
  * Enigma3 is an updated version of [Enigma2](https://github.com/PhilLockett/Enigma2).
  * Enigma3 is a Maven project that uses JavaFX, MaterialFX, FXML and CSS.
  * Uses a custom controller, "RotorControl", to represent rotor settings.
  * Uses a custom controller, "PairSelect", to represent reflector and plugboard settings.
  * Uses subtle linear and radial colour gradients on controls.
  * Uses SVG paths to create circular text fields.
  * Uses custom top-bars on all windows.
  * Rotor combinations can be selected that may not be available on the real machine.
  * Data is persisted from one session to the next.
